# Competition - Course Planner

**Course Planner Competitors**

- UofT Degree Explorer
  - URL: [https://degreeexplorer.utoronto.ca/degreeExplorer/](https://degreeexplorer.utoronto.ca/degreeExplorer/)
  - Our product is different because the UofT Degree Explorer only shows completed progress towards degree requirements and programs and a planned list of courses. Our product will aim to do this, in addition to allowing the user to be able to create a calendar to manage their timetable for a specific semester using the planned list of courses they have already prepared. This way, the student will not have to worry about going through their planned list of courses manually to fill their timetable.
  - Our product will be better for students who wish to automatically fill a schedule for their timetable every semester according to their plan not just track and plan their progress like the degree explorer and have to manually input courses. Course selection is a stressful time for many students and creating an automated program that creates a working timetable during this time will alleviate some of the stress that can happen during course selection.
  - It is likely the schedule making-feature we plan to implement was not used here to prevent confusion among student as to where exactly they need to enroll. The school has a separate program for this, being acorn, but even that does not allow students to make alternative schedules for a semester
  - If the degree explorer was also integrated into the UTM timetable planner, it may come close to the functionality that our program is aiming to provide for its users.
  - This product may also help administrative workers at the school when they plan the timetables for the following academic year. If enough students were to use the application, or it were officially integrated into the school&#39;s system, it would allow the administrative staff to better organize course times to prevent conflicts.
- UTM Timetable Planner
  - URL: [https://student.utm.utoronto.ca/timetable/](https://student.utm.utoronto.ca/timetable/)
  - Our product is different because the UTM timetable planner is limited by a specific school year and does not allow students to plan for more than just a single semester. Our program will function like the timetable planner, but will also display completed degree requirements as a student progresses through their academic career, as well as allow students to automatically enroll in courses created for an academic school year to automatically create a schedule using the courses they already planned to take in their graduation requirement plan.
  - Our program will be better for students who wish to automatically create a schedule without having to manually compare their degree plan to a course list. If the courses they planned to take are available, the schedule for a school year will be automatically created for the student.
  - Our program will be quicker to implement possible schedules for students during course enrollment time to reduce stress on a student and simplify the process of making a schedule for them.
  - It is likely that the UTM timetable planner was not intended to also track degree requirements and automatically implement courses from degree plans into a schedule so that it could be used by any user that does not necessarily have a UofT account that is needed to log into the degree explorer and allow it to function
  - In order to accommodate for this scenario, the UTM timetable planner would have to implement some sort of import feature using information provided by the degree explorer program
  - The same points apply to UofT&#39;s Acorn (URL: [https://acorn.utoronto.ca/sws/welcome.do?welcome.dispatch#/](https://acorn.utoronto.ca/sws/welcome.do?welcome.dispatch#/)), which creates a schedule for a student similarly to the UTM timetable planner, but has less features, not allowing the student to create a schedule unless it is the one they are enrolled in, and not allowing a student to plan ahead for what their schedule might look like before course enrollment date. This is also the only way for a student to officially enroll in a course through the school but our project will not be aiming to do this.
- Courseography Graph for CS
  - URL: [https://courseography.cdf.toronto.edu/graph](https://courseography.cdf.toronto.edu/graph)
  - Our product is different because while the courseography graph is incredibly useful for students to plan for which courses to take throughout their years to get to a future course, it does not allow the user to save this information and create a list of courses that the student can refer to in the future when they wish to create a schedule for a specific year.
  - Our program be better for students looking to plan for their future course-loads because not only will it allow for the functionality that this graph provides, it will also make a complete list of courses that a student will need to take every year until they graduate and automatically create timetables out of this list when course schedules become available
  - This competitor likely did not want to implement these features since this was likely created as a small project or with the idea of a &quot;reference guide&quot; in mind. They likely figured the user would use another program to map out a future course load throughout an academic career.
  - In order for this program to come close to the features that our program aims to provide, it would need to implement a graduation planner, allowing the user to create a list of courses they plan to take every year without referring to the graph, and it would also need to implement a calendar feature, which would automatically take a graduation plan, and implement a timetable automatically for a student